This section will discuss service level agreements or SLAs and I will define,
illustrate the benefits of using SLAs, and give you detailed examples.
Someday you might find yourself searching for another approach to
tool to better manage your customer's expectations,
or looking at it another way,
where you are the customer trying to manage the deliverables of a vendor or
consulting company providing services to you and your team.
Either way, there are two purposes here where SLAs can help you.
Service Level Agreements.
Alright, here's the definition.
A Service Level Agreement, as I call SLA,
is a contract between a service provider and the customer.
Now the service provider may either be internal in a company,
like your team providing services to a customer,
or external, like a consulting company providing services say to you.
Typically you and your customer define the level of service expected jointly,
maybe in a form of meetings and a written SLA agreement,
yes a formal document.
SLAs are output based in that their purpose is specifically to
define what the customer will receive from you.
Now let's see the benefits of using SLAs.
The reason to have a Service Level Agreement is to
ensure everyone will be on the same page,
which means we all have the same expectations.
So if you have the same understanding of the expectations as your customer,
it will just be easier to manage those expectations.
Okay, expectations in an SLA are specific, not fuzzy.
Though the exact metrics for each SLA vary depending on the service provider,
you, the areas covered may be things like volume or quality of work,
including precision and accuracy, speed,
responsiveness, efficiency, things like that,
in covering these areas the document aims to establish
a mutual understanding of services, areas prioritized,
responsibilities, roles, guarantees, warranties and things like that.
Expectations are in writing.
SLAs by definition must be written down and they live in a
formal document that says SLA at the top.
So this isn't just an email stating some criteria,
but in fact a document listing out all the services and metrics to be managed,
monitored, and delivered to the customer by you.
Also, expectations can be measured.
The level of service should be specific and measurable in each area.
This allows the quality of service to be benchmarked and if covered by the
agreement rewarded or maybe even penalized accordingly.
An SLA will calmly use technical definitions that qualify the level of service,
such as maybe mean time between failures or meantime to recovery,
response times, resolution,
which specifies a target or average or minimum value
for service level performance.
For example,
SLAs are also very popular among internal departments and larger organizations.
The use of an SLA by an IT help desk with other departments allows
their performance to be defined and benchmarked.
For example, how many calls by week are coming in?
How many are resolved within 1 hour?
Within 1 day?
Within 1 week?
And things like that.
The use of SLAs is also common in outsourcing or cloud computing
and other areas where the responsibility of an organization is
transferred out to another supplier.
Okay, so again, they can be used internally between you and your customers,
or they could be used externally where you're getting
services provided from the outside to you.
Okay now let's deconstruct an SLA and then later go into an example that might relate to you and your new team.